Game Theory 1 is a branch of mathematical economics focusing on the outcomes of conﬂicts between players, and the optimality of their strategies. Game theory is one of the prime fundamental

carried out according to game theory indicates that the global ﬁnancial market is currently trapped in the sub-optimal equilibrium of the prisoner’s dilemma. This dilemma is a fundamental problem of game theory, illustrating how players will sometimes fail to cooperate even if it was in their best interest. We see that players in ﬁnancial markets distrust each other and keep overpaying for an ineﬃcient set of various ratings, scores and audits, although these are frequently wrong \(as with the Enron scandal and the subprime mortgage crisis\). This ineﬃciency leads to high costs and often losses, which in turn raise the cost of capital and lead to a lack of access to capital for decentralized small businesses or borrowers. Another issue derived from this dilemma is the obstructing cost of deployment to the public market. If this barrier is removed, then the market itself is cable to evaluate every asset based on the collective wisdom of all trading participants, as the increase in volume of transparent and authentic trade operations provides more information that can be used by the market to verify the assets. We oﬀer a solution — the Proof-of-Asset Protocol, the point of which is an instant audit of the asset. Now every investor is aware of the status of his investments in non-public companies and assets. Equipped with this tool, the market will force certain businesses to change \(lawyers, accounting, auditors, and in separate cases banks and collectors\). What is our plan? We will begin by modernizing the mechanisms of assigning and validating ratings, as the cash ﬂow recorded on the blockchain using the Proof-ofAsset protocol is transparent, understandable, as well as much faster and cheaper. In essence, the asset’s state is being constantly monitored by the logic of smart-contracts. In turn, the increased amount of information on economical operations and their authenticity grant new opportunities for the development of an economical AI, building suﬃciently precise artiﬁcial intelligence systems for risk evaluation, making the cost of such calculations approach zero. This would enable the creation of a competitive market of economical AI working for the good of modern society. 2 Modern Financial Markets 2.1 Bank-as-a-Service \(BaaS\) Business Model Bank-as-a-Service \(BaaS \) is a business model that makes it possible to build new ﬁnancial products that are integrated with multiple existing technological solutions and jurisdictions. On one side of these platforms are originators in various jurisdictions with various technologies, and on the other are ﬁntech-companies wishing to launch a new product or expand to a new market. Thanks to the platform, they are able to do this quickly and eﬃciently, without the need to work out integration with the legislation of every country and every new bank from scratch. Since the platform already contains technological and legal integration, it can provide access to a new player more cheaply and more quickly. The originator in the BaaS model is a storefront, essentially establishing access to the end client, be it a bank, a ﬁntech company, an internet platform, a stock exchange or an insurer. It is critical that when building the BaaS business model, the originator of the platform maintains his client and access to the client under his control, but at the same time he provides the client with the most up-to-date and competitive products on the market by the best tech 1 Game theory is the study of the ways in which interacting choices of economic agents produce outcomes with respect to the preferences \(or utilities\) of those agents, where the outcomes in question might have been intended by none of the agents \[6\].3



